So, we're gonna talk about the basic game,
or the basic little program
we're gonna be making.
I made a really dumb shooter program
that looks something like this.
This is obviously, there's no graphics,
it just runs in Node, so I made my own
pictorial version of it so that we can
see it and see how beautiful it is.
Effectively, two people
are standing far apart.
They start shooting, at some rate.
The bullets travel at some other rate.
As the bullets get near each other,
they may collide, removing both bullets.
It's only played in a plane, it's only
on a straight line, nothing fantastic.
And once, of course, the bullet reaches
the final guy and touches one side or
the other, well, that person dies and
that player loses.
Then we send back a nice message saying,
hey, you won, you shot this many bullets,
some basic statistics about what happened.
And the other person, hey, you lost, but
hey, you got all these things, and so
there we go.
Fun game, it's a skill issue for
the person that died, I know feels bad for
that guy.
And so there we go,
that is what the program does.
And so now we're gonna walk through what
the code is doing kind of line by line, so
it shouldn't be too bad.
So, see next, okay, so the first thing
is just we started really simple server.
If you're not familiar, just do a little
WebSocket server, it's gonna be played
over WebSockets, cuz you played with UDP,
probably UDP might be slightly better,
but there's a lot of complication
when it comes to UDP.
Just because I mean, you're still sending
TCP and at the end of the day a WebSocket
header that's sending a small amount
of information only adds two bytes of
information and
there's an XORing of the packet.
So, I mean, it's not much, could be four
bytes or six bytes if you have the XOR
part of it, so it's not like it's a huge
amount of overhead on these things.
So, we're not gonna worry about
the fact that we're using WebSockets.
All right, so
the server goes pretty simple.
We start the server,
we create a runner for all the games, and
then on every new connection I hand the
socket off to the runner, pretty simple.
After that,
we start listening on the server.
If we listen, awesome,
I'm gonna print it out.
If we fail, I'm gonna print out,
hey, we can't start the server,
just so we know all these
things are happening, okay?
Everyone should be pretty
comfortable with that.
And so let's look at the runner.
The runner is pretty straightforward,
all it does is it has a waiting WebSocket.
And when we have no waiting WebSocket,
we just add the first socket that comes in
and then returns, if we have two,
we're gonna play the game, right?
It's two people shooting at each other,
so once we have two WebSockets, we play.
And then we just repeat this motion
over and over and over again.
Okay, pretty straightforward, right?
Now playing the game gets a little
bit more complicated, and
I didn't really try to write this
code in the most beautiful sense, so
I hope everyone can just follow along.
First thing we do is obviously we wait for
the sockets both to be open,
we don't want them to be in some sort
of opening state or connecting state.
So once they're both opened,
we send a start command to both of them.
If this was a real game, obviously
you'd send some sort of future time,
you'd count down,
not allow key presses, all that.
This is not a production game,
this is a fake game.
Next, we create some state for
each player.
After that, we listen to a bunch
of different messages for
each one of the sockets,
hey, do we have a message?
If we have a message,
we need to add it to that player's queue.
If we got a close message,
we need to say the player closed.
If we got an error,
we need to say the player errors.
That way we can kinda keep track
of all the state of the socket.
Next, we create a ticker.
A ticker simply is going to,
as reliably as possible,
create a 16.66, or
really an FPS amount of frames.
And so, with this one, it's pretty simple,
we'll go over it here shortly.
Next, create a new game, and
then after that I simply await for
each time I'm supposed to
run my update loop, and
it will hopefully update
as steadily as possible.
If for whatever reason,
we update longer than 16 milliseconds,
I do kind of do multiple updates.
And the reason why I do that is
that the collision formula for
two circles with time updates
are fairly complicated.
Cated so I ensured that the bullets are
big enough, and they're moving fast enough
that at 16 milliseconds,
even if they're next to each other,
they'll still be overlapping
at the end of the day.
I'm not a great game programmer and
I know these things, and so
pretty straightforward.
After that we check to see are there
any messages, if there are messages,
we'll call a fire, and
then after that we'll clear out the queue.
If the has ended or player one has closed,
or player two has closed, or
player one has errored, or
player two has errored,
we quit this loop, and
then we simply just get the stats out.
If both players have screwed up,
don't do anything.
If one player screwed up, send hey,
the other opponent disconnected.
If the other player do that,
else send out the stats.
Do a little bit of bookkeeping,
and that's it.
So that is really our kind of our game
loop for running the games over and
over again.
So pretty straightforward,
pretty simple, I would say.
Next, we have the ticker,
the ticker is pretty straightforward.
All it does is it just simply calculates
intervals, and we have a next.
Next just simply means, every single
next is gonna just be a plus rate,
rate being the FPS, so 16.66666 forever.
And so
it's just gonna keep on saying, hey,
that's the next point in time in
which we need to do something.
If from the last time to this time being
called it has been less than the tick
rate, I'm going to sleep for a second and
just let whatever happens happen, and
then I'm gonna come back and
keep doing it.
You If I've slept a little bit extra than
I was expecting to, I make sure I keep
track of that amount, and then I return
out to the player or to the game.
Hey, you were asleep for this amount of
ticks, or in other words, this amount of
milliseconds, so I expected 16 but
I woke up and the extra was about 18.
It's gonna come back so
that way we can update properly and
we know kind of where we're at.
All right, so
that is really most of the game.
So the last thing, last piece of code we
want to go over is going to be the game
itself, which isn't all that hard so I'll
just jump down to, let's go to update.
Update is pretty straightforward.
Update, all we're doing is we go
over all the player two bullets,
we update the location and
see if any of them have hit player one.
We do the same thing for player one,
we go over all player one's bullets,
update their location, see if they hit
player two, and then after that we go
through each one of player two's bullets
and see, hey, do we collide with you?
If we collide with you,
I add this little hold bullets remove list
because you cannot edit a collection.
Bullets are a set, so you can't edit
a set collection while iterating over it.
I don't know what the effects
are gonna be, but
largely that is considered
a pretty negative thing to do.
So I add it to a list, and
then at the end, if there's anything left,
we just simply delete
the bullets out of the set.
So we have player one and
player two's sets.
And I just kind of
blindly delete each one,
I don't really try to be precise about
that this come from player one set or
players to set,
we just hope that we get it correct.
Fire is really, really simple, make sure
you just achieve the fire rate and creating
a bullet, really, really simple,
just add a bullet to a set, and that's it.
And so
that's really the entirety of the game.
So there you go, you got the whole nine
yards, it's not a lot of programming,
it's a pretty straightforward
small piece of code.
I wanted to create something that had
enough problems, but at the exact same
time isn't terribly complicated so that
even if you're just okay at programming,
you can jump in and go, okay, I
understand this, okay, I understand this.
We didn't try to do anything too fancy.
All right, there we go.
All right, so everyone feels comfortable,
we feel good enough, right?
Okay, good, all right, so
we have a problem statement,
which is that our internal CI server show
that our games are not delivering frames.
We expect frames to be 15,
16, or 17 millisecond frames.
It's just JavaScript, of course,
meaning we don't have precision,
you cannot sleep for at 16.66666, right?
You sleep for if it's 16.66, you sleep for
16, the next time, that's gonna be 17,
the next time that would be kind of 15.
You're gonna kind of do this
little jumping back and
forth to where you're trying to
make a 16.66 average, and so
you're largely gonna be in the 16s,
in the 17 millisecond sleeps.
We really want to quit having
frames overflow or underflow.
And so your job, you boss said,
hey, we have to be at least below
25% of all frames being either
overflowing or underflowing.
And overflow would be 18 or more
milliseconds, and underflow would be 15 or
14 or less milliseconds.
So that means if you did like a 19 sleep,
the next one would have to come at much,
much lower for you to be able to make up,
and so you don't want to
be bouncing around as a server, you
just want nice smooth updates happening.
Of course, you want to have a job so
you're like, I like this idea.
And second, you want to get nice
Christmas bonus, so there you go.
We wanna do good job,
we wanna be able to get some W.
So we wanna do a really fantastic job and
take something back that
makes everybody happy.
All right, everyone excited?
Does that sound good?
We got a question?
>> Why did you use sets instead
of objects to record the bullets?
>> Okay, why did I use sets instead
The problem is I'm not really sure
how I would use objects versus sets
in this situation, because how do you
iterate over an object of bullets?
I would have to have some sort of key, so
is it a 1, 2, 3, is it an A, B, C sets?
I can simply just iterate over the
collection that's underneath the set by
just doing this, and so
it's a pretty simple data structure,
plus when I want to remove it from the
set, I get a remove it at constant time.
And so when I wanna look up something,
it's a constant time lookup, and
when I wanna delete something,
it's a constant time deletion.
So that feels a lot better than,
say, like an object I'd have to a,
know the key, and
then deleting a key off an object.
I don't know how it's
stored underneath the hood.
I know it's not the same as a set, a set
is gonna be much different than an object.
Is that a log(n) delete?
I have no idea.
And plus generally, from what I've seen,
objects just aren't as fast as maps when
you're just looking up a bunch of random
keys, they seem to be a little bit better.
I can't say that's 100% true,
but my brief playing around,
I just typically reach for maps or sets
when it comes to looking up something.
Fair, everybody else?
I'm pretty sure pretty much every single
person casually enjoys using sets or
maps pretty regularly, right?
Yeah, now, sort of, okay.
>> One quick question.
>> Yeah.
>> How do we close the WebSocket
after the user closes the browser?
>> I don't, that's a great question.
Do I even explicitly call close on them?
I don't think I explicitly
call close on them.
Did I forget to do that?
I mean, on the Rust side we call close,
which inevitably gets a called
closed on the other side.
They should get automatically closed down.
The test client does a 1000 close on it,
so the other side should get closed down.
I guess one thing I probably
didn't even think about or
even try to do was make sure
I clean up after the sockets.
That's a great point,
I don't even think I did that.
I'm unsure if I have to clean up after
these, I'd have to look into that.
I didn't see any memory leak.
I've ran this program for
quite some time and the memory just.
Sat there, so I don't think I have
a problem on that, but it is something I
should have probably just looked into,
I just completely forgot to do that.
I'm so used to the Rust way of doing
things where when the drop happens for me,
I just don't even have to think about it,
but we could do that.
You could add a p1.off, what is it?
Is there is a remove all listeners, right?
Boom, and add that,
there you go, you'd have that.
In fact, at the end of the course
we can even try to see,
does that actually make
a material difference?
Is it actually affecting things?
We'll do that.